Added a new tactic on wind-down rituals (#17)
BronzGreen-Honest-Power/LemiTree: Human_Individual/Having_-_Resources_-_Means_to_Live/Health/Physical_Health/Sleep/Before_Sleeping/Wind-down_ritual.md

> [//]: <> (FD,X0,EML)

Reviewer: Would change to (FD,FL,X0,EML) as your first three suggestions in the how part are all 3 one-timers

# **Wind-down ritual**

## **Infographic**
[//]: <> (BO-infographic)
* Link to image or formatted image.

[//]: <> (EO-infographic)
## **Video**
[//]: <> (BO-video)
* Link to video.

[//]: <> (EO-video)
## **Audio**
[//]: <> (BO-audio)
* Link to audio.

[//]: <> (EO-audio)

## **Intro**
[//]: <> (BO-intro)

> On a daily basis, we are bombarded with a great amount of information and signals from the outside world. In order to fall asleep faster, our brain enjoys it when we shut down a large number of triggers and stimuli a while before we go to bed. This is called a wind-down ritual. For example, shutting down all your electronics an hour before you go to bed will make your brain feel like your world becomes much smaller. This is caused by your house and the people and objects in it being the only things that can still trigger the brain. This naturally calms you down and will enable you to fall asleep faster and have a better sleep quality

Reviewer: Great description. Add a . at the end.

[//]: <> (EO-intro)
## **Why**
[//]: <> (BO-why)

> A wind-down ritual calms down your mind before you go to bed and makes it easier to fall asleep and improves your sleep quality as it reduces stress by decreasing the stimuli that the brain receives. The alternative actions can also improve the production of melatonin, boosting the ability to fall asleep faster even more. Another great advantage of a wind-down ritual is that you make it much easier for yourself to stick to a fixed sleeping time, which might be the single best habit for a high-quality sleep. Indeed, you will find that a consolidated winding-down ritual naturally triggers the desire to sleep, as the mind associates the chosen ritual action with the eventual rest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A wind-down ritual calms down your mind before you go to bed. It makes it easier to fall asleep and improves your sleep quality as it reduces stressors by decreasing the stimuli that the brain receives (source todo). You supercharge the effect by doing alternative actions that make it even easier to fall asleep. Another great advantage of a wind-down ritual is that you make it much easier for yourself to stick to a fixed sleeping time, which might be the single best habit for a high-quality sleep. Indeed, you will find that a consolidated winding-down ritual naturally triggers the desire to sleep, as the mind associates the chosen ritual action with the eventual rest.
```

### *Benefit 1*
A wind-down ritual limits external stimuli and allows for better sleep.

### *Benefit 2*
Opting for tranquil activities before sleeping, such as reading or doing yoga, reduces stress and relaxes you (1).

[//]: <> (EO-why)
## **How**
[//]: <> (BO-how)

> There are two aspects to a wind-down ritual. The first one is closing down any portal that generates a lot of triggers, like the TV, your computer or the Wi-Fi on your phone at a certain time in the evening. You can make it easier for yourself to start this process of creating a wind-down ritual in multiple ways. You can set a daily alarm clock to remind yourself to start your ritual in the evening. If the internet is what generally distracts you a lot, you can use apps like “StayFocusd” or “freedom.to” for your computer or phone that will shut off internet automatically. This will make it much easier to stick with your planning as there is no choice anymore to continue on the internet. Alternatively, you can set a time clock on your router, which then switches off automatically at the time you chose to start your wind-down ritual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two aspects to a wind-down ritual. The first one is closing down any portal that generates a lot of triggers, like the TV, your computer or the Wi-Fi on your phone at a certain time in the evening. The following three suggestions for starting your wind-down ritual are all one-timers: 
- You can set a daily alarm clock that starts your wind-down ritual. 
- If the internet is what generally distracts you a lot, use apps like “StayFocusd” or “freedom.to” for your computer or phone that will shut off internet automatically. This will make it much easier to stick with your planning as there is no choice anymore to continue on the internet. 
- Alternatively, you can set a time clock on your router and/or power cable of your tv, which then switches off your technology at your chosen time.
```

> The second aspect to the wind-down ritual is filling in the time you have freed up by not being on any technological device anymore. These activities generally calm you down even more, thereby increasing the effect of the wind-down ritual on your sleep quality:

Reviewer: Add (todo) for adding sources in the future of (scientific) articles that show that the activities have been proven to have a calming effect/boosting effect for sleep
